.TH pioneers-meta-server 6 "May 9, 2006" "pioneers"
.SH NAME
pioneers-meta-server \- meta game server for Pioneers

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B pioneers-meta-server
.RI [ options ]

.SH DESCRIPTION
.B Pioneers
is an implementation of the popular, award-winning "Settlers of Catan"
board game.  It uses a client/server model for networked play. This program
provides a piece of network infrastructure that helps match pioneers clients to
pioneers servers. Casual players of pioneers probably do not need to run this
program.

.SH OPTIONS

.TP
.B \-h
Print a short help text and exit.

.TP
.B \-d
Run in daemon mode.

.TP
.BI \-r " location"
.RI "Redirect to " location "."

.TP
.BI \-s " hostname"
.RI "Use " hostname " as hostname when creating servers."

.TP
.BI \-p " from" \- "to"
.RI "Use ports in the range " from "-" to " (inclusive) for started servers."
It is advised not to include port 5555 in the range.  (See BUGS below.)

.SH ENVIRONMENT
The default settings of the meta-server can be influenced with the
following three environment variables:
.TP 
.B PIONEERS_META_SERVER
The hostname the meta-server will use when creating new games. This should
be a hostname that can be resolved by all clients that will connect.
.TP 
.B PIONEERS_SERVER_CONSOLE
.RB "The path to " pioneers-server-console "."
If it is not set, the default installation path will be used.
.TP
.B PIONEERS_DIR
The path to the game definition files.
If it is not set, the default installation path will be used.

.SH FILES
.B /usr/share/games/pioneers/*.game
.RS
Game definitions
.RE

.SH BUGS
.I pioneers-server-console
uses port 5555 for its admin connection.  This means that only the first server
started from the meta-server will actually succeed in binding to that.  For all
subsequent servers, the admin socket fails to open, and thus cannot be
connected to.

.SH AUTHOR
This manual page was written by Jeff Breidenbach <jab@debian.org>,
and updated by Roland Clobus <rclobus@bigfoot.com> and
Bas Wijnen <shevek@fmf.nl>.
Pioneers was written by Dave Cole <dave@dccs.com.au>, Andy Heroff
<aheroff@mediaone.net>, and Roman Hodek <roman@hodek.net>, with
contributions from many other developers on the Internet; see the
AUTHORS file in the pioneers distribution or the help->about dialog in one of
the graphical programs for a complete list of contributing authors.

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR pioneers(6) ", " pioneers-server-gtk(6) ", " pioneers-server-console(6)
