.TH gnocatan-meta-server 6 "March 5, 2005" "gnocatan"
.SH NAME
gnocatan-meta-server \- meta game server for Gnocatan

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B gnocatan-meta-server
[
.BI \-d
] [
.BI \-r " location"
]

.SH DESCRIPTION
This manual page documents briefly the
.B gnocatan-meta-server
command.
.PP
.B Gnocatan
is an implementation of the popular, award-winning "Settlers of Catan"
board game for the GNOME desktop environment.  It uses a client/server
model for networked play. This program provides a piece of network
infrastructure that helps match gnocatan clients to gnocatan
servers. Casual players of gnocatan probably do not need to run this
program.

.SH OPTIONS
.TP 12
.BI \-d
Run in daemon mode.
.TP
.BI \-r " location"
.RI "Redirect to " location "."

.SH ENVIRONMENT
The default settings of the meta-server can be influenced with the
following three environment variables:
.TP 
.B GNOCATAN_META_SERVER
The hostname the meta-server will use when creating new games. This should
be a hostname that can be resolved by all clients that will connect.
.TP 
.B GNOCATAN_SERVER_CONSOLE
.RB "The path to " gnocatan-server-console "."
If it is not set, the default installation path will be used.
.TP
.B GNOCATAN_DIR
The path to the game definition files.
If it is not set, the default installation path will be used.

.SH FILES
.B /usr/share/games/gnocatan/*.game
.RS
Game definitions
.RE

.SH AUTHOR
This manual page was written by Jeff Breidenbach <jab@debian.org>,
and updated by Roland Clobus <rclobus@bigfoot.com>.
Gnocatan was written by Dave Cole <dave@dccs.com.au>, Andy Heroff
<aheroff@mediaone.net>, and Roman Hodek <roman@hodek.net>, with
contributions from many other developers on the Internet; see the
AUTHORS file in the gnocatan distribution for a complete list of
contributing authors.

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR gnocatan(6) ", " gnocatan-server-gtk(6) ", " gnocatan-server-console(6)
