.TH gnocatan-server-gtk 6 "March 5, 2005" "gnocatan"
.SH NAME
gnocatan-server-gtk \- graphical game server for Gnocatan

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B gnocatan-server-gtk
.RI [ options ]

.SH DESCRIPTION
This manual page documents briefly the
.B gnocatan-server-gtk
command.
.PP
.B Gnocatan
is an implementation of the popular, award-winning "Settlers of Catan"
board game for the GNOME desktop environment.  It uses a client/server
model for networked play of between two and eight players.  This program
provides a GUI-configurable stand-alone server which you connect to
from 
.B gnocatan
itself.

.SH OPTIONS
Gnocatan accepts the standard GTK+/GNOME commandline options.

.SH ENVIRONMENT
The default settings of the server can be influenced with the
following three environment variables:
.TP 
.B GNOCATAN_META_SERVER
The hostname of the meta-server when no meta-server is specified in the
user interface. (The settings file takes precedence)
.TP
.B GNOCATAN_SERVER_NAME
The hostname of the server.
If it is not set, the hostname is determined by 
.BR hostname(1) .
(The settings file takes precedence)
.TP 
.B GNOCATAN_DIR
The path to the game definition files.
If it is not set, the default installation path will be used.

.SH FILES
.B /usr/share/games/gnocatan/*.game
.RS
Game definitions
.RE
.B /usr/share/pixmaps/gnome-gnocatan.png
.RS
Game icon
.RE
.B $HOME/.gnome2/gnocatan-server
.RS
Saved settings
.RE

.SH AUTHOR
This manual page was written by Steve Langasek <vorlon@debian.org>,
and updated by Roland Clobus <rclobus@bigfoot.com>.
Gnocatan was written by Dave Cole <dave@dccs.com.au>, Andy Heroff
<aheroff@mediaone.net>, and Roman Hodek <roman@hodek.net>, with
contributions from many other developers on the Internet; see the
AUTHORS file in the gnocatan distribution for a complete list of
contributing authors.

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR gnocatan(6) ", " gnocatan-server-console(6) ", " gnocatanai(6)
