.TH gnocatan 6 "March 5, 2005" "gnocatan"
.SH NAME
gnocatan \- network implementation of Settlers of Catan

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B gnocatan
[
.BI \-s " server"
] [
.BI \-\-server " server"
] [
.BI \-p " port"
] [
.BI \-\-port " port"
] [
.BI \-n " name"
] [
.BI \-\-name " name"
]

.SH DESCRIPTION
This manual page documents briefly the
.B gnocatan
command.
.PP
.B Gnocatan
is an implementation of the popular, award-winning "Settlers of Catan"
board game for the GNOME desktop environment.  It uses a client/server
model for networked play of between two and eight players.  You will
need to connect to a machine running either \fBgnocatan-server-gtk\fP
or \fBgnocatan-server-console\fP to play.  An AI client, \fBgnocatanai\fP,
is also available.

.SH OPTIONS
Gnocatan accepts the standard GTK+/GNOME commandline options, 
and the following options:
.TP
.BI "\-s, \-\-server" " server"
Hostname of the server
.TP
.BI "\-p, \-\-port" " port"
Portname of the server
.TP
.BI "\-n, \-\-name" " name"
Name of the player

.PP
When the options are provided, the client automatically quits when 
the connection is broken.

.SH ENVIRONMENT
The default settings can be influenced with the
following environment variable:
.TP 
.B GNOCATAN_META_SERVER
The hostname of the meta-server.
If it is not set, the default meta-server will be used.

.SH DEVELOPERS AND TRANSLATORS
With the commandline option
.B \-\-language
.I code
the values of the environment variables
.B LANGUAGE
and
.B LC_ALL
can be overriden. The 
.I code
should be one of the 2-letter language code gnocatan understands.

.SH FILES
.B /usr/share/games/gnocatan/themes/*
.RS
Themes for display of the map. Each theme goes in a separate subdirectory.
.RE
.B /usr/share/pixmaps/gnocatan/*
.RS
Icons
.RE
.B /usr/share/pixmaps/gnome-gnocatan.png
.RS
Main icon
.RE
.B $HOME/.gnome2/gnocatan
.RS
Saved settings
.RE

.SH AUTHOR
This manual page was written by Steve Langasek <vorlon@debian.org>,
and updated by Roland Clobus <rclobus@bigfoot.com>.
Gnocatan was written by Dave Cole <dave@dccs.com.au>, Andy Heroff
<aheroff@mediaone.net>, and Roman Hodek <roman@hodek.net>, with
contributions from many other developers on the Internet; see the
AUTHORS file in the gnocatan distribution for a complete list of
contributing authors.

.SH SEE ALSO
More detailed user documentation is available in the online help.
.PP
.BR gnocatan-server-gtk(6) ", " gnocatan-server-console(6) ", "
.B gnocatanai(6)
